Arsenal's wait for Champions League return likely to continue after 'disaster' against Newcastle
If last week's Premier League defeat against Tottenham Hotpsur was damaging, over the course of 90 minutes against Newcastle on Monday, Arsenal's Champions League hopes were all but extinguished.

What really hurts for Arsenal's fans is that before those two games, the club had been shaping up to announce its return to the top of European football.
The 2-0 defeat at St James' Park -- a performance midfielder Granit Xhaka described as a "disaster" -- delivered a huge blow to Arsenal's chances of finishing in the Premier League top four as the Gunners remain two points behind Tottenham with one game left to play.
To regain fourth position and qualify for the Champions League, Arsenal will realistically need to beat Everton on Sunday and hope bottom side Norwich -- without a win in six Premier League games -- can pull off an unlikely victory against Tottenham.
But as things stand, Monday's lackluster defeat appears costly.
"If someone isn't ready for this game, stay at home," was Xhaka's withering assessment of his team's showing against Newcastle.
"If you're not ready for that, you're nervous, stay on the bench or stay at home, don't come here," he told Sky Sports. "We need people that have balls -- sorry to say that -- to come here and to play, because we knew this game is maybe one of the most important games for us."
Newcastle, with little to play for other than cementing mid-table status, dominated the encounter and should have been in front by halftime -- the best chance falling to Allan Saint-Maximin after a lively run past Takehiro Tomiyasu.
The home side did take the lead 10 minutes into the second half when Ben White deflected Joelinton's cross into his own net.
That goal did little to spur Arsenal into action as waves of Newcastle attacks continued and several chances -- including an audacious, long-distance attempt to lob Aaron Ramsdale -- fell to Callum Wilson.
But it was Bruno Guimarães, after Wilson had been denied by Ramsdale with five minutes left to play, who scored Newcastle's second and condemned Arsenal to back-to-back losses after last week's sucker-punch defeat to Tottenham.
"Newcastle were 100 times better than us in every department from the beginning to the end and it's hard to accept," said Arsenal manager Mikel Arteta.
"But you have to accept it and that's the reality of what happened today on that pitch ... We didn't compete, we never got into the game, we put ourselves in trouble time after time, we lost every duel.
"Every aspect of the game we were second best and Newcastle totally deserved to win the match, probably by a bigger margin as well."
READ: Liverpool wins FA Cup final after beating Chelsea in nerve-racking penalty shootout
The result means Arsenal will likely feature in the Europa League next season, and Europe's second-tier competition comes with its own unique challenges -- namely traveling to Europe to play on a Thursday before returning for a Premier League game at the weekend.
That could be difficult for Arteta given his side has struggled with a lack of squad depth throughout the season.
"The team that we were able to build is what we were able to build and it's the team that has taken us all the way here," the manager reflected after Monday's defeat.
Midfielder Thomas Partey has been absent since Arsenal's defeat against Crystal Palace at the start of April, while left-back Kieran Tierney is recovering after undergoing knee surgery last month.
Those injuries -- coupled with the decision not to sign more players during the January transfer window -- could have contributed to Arsenal's undoing, while indiscipline has also been a problem.
Xhaka was red carded in the first half against Manchester City in August, with Arsenal going on on to lose the game 5-0.
In the return fixture at the Emirates Stadium, defender Gabriel was sent off just before the hour mark with the score at 1-1 in a game Arsenal was dominating. City went on to win 2-1, scoring its second goal in stoppage time.
And in last week's 3-0 defeat by Tottenham, Rob Holding was given a red card just after 30 minutes.
Nonetheless, there have also been signs of optimism for supporters this season.
A run of four straight victories prior to the defeat against Tottenham included wins against Chelsea, Manchester United, and West Ham, and this will be Arsenal's highest finish in the league under Arteta.
While this youthful side has punched above its weight several times over the past nine months, it will still be hard for fans not to reflect on what could have been: a first appearance in the Champions League since the 2016/17 season.
Liverpool wins FA Cup final after beating Chelsea in nerve-racking penalty shootout
There is something about this Liverpool team.

For all its qualities -- the intense pressing, the defensive solidity, the whirlwind attacks -- perhaps its finest is a sense of drama on occasions such as these.
Just as in the League Cup final earlier this year at Wembley, Jurgen Klopp's men needed penalties to see off Chelsea and lift silverware at the same stadium.
As improbable as it is that the Reds will become the first English team to win all three domestic competitions and the European Cup, the quadruple is still possible thanks to this FA Cup win.
Two trophies in the cabinet this season, room being kept for two more. It is why Liverpool fans are dreaming. History could still be made.
A scoreless 120 minutes belied the quality of the match. Chances were created, goalposts were rattled, but perhaps it was fitting that on the 150th anniversary of football's oldest cup competition the final was decided in the most theatrical of ways.
Chelsea missed its second penalty (Cesar Azplicueta), Liverpool its fifth (Sadio Mane). There was a sense of déjà vu as the first 10 penalties could not decide the outcome and the match went to sudden death -- the League Cup final ended 11-10 on penalties with the goalkeepers needing to step up.
Fewer penalties were needed this time, however, as Alisson Becker saved Mason Mount's spot kick, which gave Kostas Tsimikas the chance to become the unlikely hero.
The Greece international is not a regular starter for Liverpool, but coolly slotted home to spark joyous celebrations from those in red.
Liverpool's players engulfed Tsimikas, manager Jurgen Klopp sprinted towards his men and the fans set off flares to saturate the air with a tint of red.
The club's anthem 'You'll Never Walk Alone' echoed around the stadium as Liverpool fans serenaded a team which has given them a first FA Cup win at Wembley in 30 years.
Such is the caliber of this Liverpool side, however, celebrations will have to be short-lived as there are other challenges on the horizon -- a Champions League final at the end of the month, and two Premier League matches in which to try to overhaul Manchester City's three point advantage at the top of the league.
Chances galore
Even an occasion as traditional as this -- a marching band before kick-off, Royalty presenting the trophy -- recognizes world events.
Like many a grand sporting occasion, political statements were made. First, Liverpool fans booed the English national anthem, then captains and officials stood with the Ukrainian flag which had the words 'PEACE' emblazoned in black capital letters and, just before this oldest of competitions got underway, the players took the knee.
The match was just minutes old when Liverpool got its first chance. In truth, the men in red should have scored at least once, such was their domination of the first 15 minutes, but Thiago, the outstanding Luis Diaz, Mo Salah and Mane floundered in front of goal.
Though Chelsea played second fiddle for most of the first half, arguably the Londoners had the best chance of that period with only a world-class save from Alisson -- a dive low to the feet of Marcos Alonso -- preventing them from going ahead.
The early exit of Salah, Liverpool's leading scorer this season, through injury added to Liverpool's increased sense of anxiety as the half progressed but, even without the Egyptian, the Reds were able to reassert their dominance before the break.
Indeed, Salah's replacement, Diogo Jota, should have put Klopp's men ahead just before half-time.
Just as Liverpool had in the first half, Chelsea made a bright start in the second. Again, Alonso was denied from getting on the scoresheet, this time by the crossbar as his menacing free-kick hit the woodwork.
Two of English football's finest teams were going toe-to-toe and there were chances aplenty: Jota, Diaz and Andy Robertson for Liverpool; Christian Pulisic (twice) for Chelsea.
It was breathless. It was entertaining. It made for a brilliant atmosphere as both sets of fans raised the decibels on a beautiful London summer's evening.
All that was missing was a goal. The minutes went by, substitutes came on, mistakes crept into the play of tired legs, yet no one could find the net.
Diaz looked skywards as the impressive Edouard Mendy stopped another chance of his, this one in the 82nd minute, and his gesture reflected the feelings of all fans watching: will either goalkeeper ever be beaten?
Robertson hit the post with seven minutes to go before Diaz again took aim. But as the full-time whistle went, the match -- for all the chances, for all the entertainment -- remained 0-0.
Inevitably, the energy dropped in extra time and few chances were created as penalties loomed large on the horizon.
Once again Chelsea, still under UK government sanctions, suffered the cruelest of defeats, becoming the first team to lose three consecutive FA Cup finals.
"We are sad, but the same time proud as we left everything on the field," manager Thomas
Sergio Aguero: Manchester City great is immortalized with statue

messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi messi 
Mohamed Salah Mohamed Salah Mohamed Salah Mohamed Salah Mohamed Salah Mohamed Salah Mohamed Salah Mohamed Salah Mohamed Salah Mohamed Salah Mohamed Salah Mohamed Salah Mohamed Salah Mohamed Salah Mohamed Salah Mohamed Salah Mohamed Salah Mohamed Salah Mohamed Salah Mohamed Salah Mohamed Salah Mohamed Salah Mohamed Salah Mohamed Salah Mohamed Salah Mohamed Salah Mohamed Salah 
Cristiano Ronaldo Cristiano Ronaldo Cristiano Ronaldo Cristiano Ronaldo Cristiano Ronaldo Cristiano Ronaldo Cristiano Ronaldo Cristiano Ronaldo Cristiano Ronaldo Cristiano Ronaldo Cristiano Ronaldo Cristiano Ronaldo Cristiano Ronaldo Cristiano Ronaldo Cristiano Ronaldo Cristiano Ronaldo Cristiano Ronaldo Cristiano Ronaldo Cristiano Ronaldo Cristiano Ronaldo Cristiano Ronaldo Cristiano Ronaldo Cristiano Ronaldo Cristiano Ronaldo Cristiano Ronaldo Cristiano Ronaldo Cristiano Ronaldo Cristiano Ronaldo 
Barcelona Barcelona Barcelona Barcelona Barcelona Barcelona Barcelona Barcelona Barcelona Barcelona Barcelona Barcelona Barcelona Barcelona Barcelona Barcelona Barcelona Barcelona Barcelona Barcelona Barcelona Barcelona Barcelona Barcelona Barcelona 
real madrid real madrid real madrid real madrid real madrid real madrid real madrid real madrid real madrid real madrid real madrid real madrid real madrid real madrid real madrid real madrid real madrid real madrid real madrid real madrid real madrid real madrid real madrid real madrid real madrid 
Liverpool Liverpool Liverpool Liverpool Liverpool Liverpool Liverpool Liverpool Liverpool Liverpool Liverpool Liverpool Liverpool Liverpool Liverpool Liverpool Liverpool Liverpool Liverpool Liverpool Liverpool Liverpool Liverpool Liverpool Liverpool Liverpool Liverpool Liverpool Liverpool Liverpool Liverpool 