Ukraine foreign minister discussed arms supply and EU status with Dutch counterpart
Ukraine's Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba discussed arms supplies, new sanctions against Russia and granting Ukraine European Union candidate status during a meeting with his Dutch counterpart Wopke Hoekstra in The Hague on Tuesday, he tweeted.
"Met with my colleague and friend Wopke Hoekstra at the beginning of my visit to The Hague. Commended him and the Dutch government for their efforts to defend peace in Ukraine and Europe. We focused on further arms supplies, new sanctions on Russia, and Ukraine’s EU candidate status," Kuleba said.
Putin: Some European countries cannot "give up" on Russian oil
Some European countries cannot give up on Russian oil, President Vladimir Putin said on Tuesday.

"European countries continue to introduce new sanctions on oil and gas markets. All of this is leading to inflation, but instead of admitting their own mistakes, they're looking for someone to blame," Putin said during a meeting on oil industry.

"The Europeans recognize that they cannot completely give up on Russian energy resources and it is also obvious that certain EU countries where the share of Russian hydrocarbons is particularly high, for a long time will not be able to give up our energy," he said, adding that the decisions adopted by the European Union "and the declarations about a full renunciation of Russian energy sources have already caused a rise in prices for oil."
Evacuation of Mariupol defenders was only possible way to rescue them, Ukrainian official says
The operation to evacuate Ukrainian defenders from the Azovstal plant in Mariupol was the only possible way for their rescue, said Ukrainian Deputy Minister of Defense Hanna Malyar during a briefing at the Media Center Ukraine on Tuesday. 

"Unfortunately, military unblocking is impossible in this situation. There could be no other way to rescue them than the way it is happening now. It was the only way out," Malyar said, adding that "the defenders of Mariupol" have fully fulfilled their combat mission.
Due to the defense of Mariupol, Russian forces were not able to transfer about 20,000 personnel to other regions of Ukraine, and thus failed to capture Zaporizhzhia, according to Malyar.
Ukraine expects prisoner exchange for wounded soldiers from Azovstal
Ukraine expects to carry out an exchange of Russian prisoners of war for the severely injured soldiers evacuated from the Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol late on Monday, Ukraine's deputy prime minister has said.

"In the interests of saving lives, 52 of our severely wounded servicemen were evacuated yesterday. After their condition stabilizes, we will exchange them for Russian prisoners of war," Iryna Vereshchuk said Tuesday.

"We are working on the next stages of the humanitarian operation," Vereshchuk added.

Hundreds of people were evacuated on Monday from the steel plant, the last holdout in a city that had become a symbol of Ukrainian resistance under relentless Russian bombardment.

What Russia is saying: Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said on Tuesday that fighters who left the besieged Azovstal plant will be treated in accordance with international laws.

"President [Vladimir Putin] ... ordered Minister of Defense to refrain from storming Azovstal for humanitarian reasons and announced that both civilians and the military could leave, the military after laying down their arms,” Peskov said on a regular conference call.

Peskov added that Putin also “guaranteed that they would be treated in accordance with the international laws.”
Russia expels two Finnish diplomats following ​​expulsion of two Russian diplomats from Finland 
Finland's Ambassador to Russia Antti Helanterya was summoned to the Russian foreign ministry in Moscow on Tuesday and notified of Russia's decision to expel two Finnish embassy employees as part of a diplomatic response, the ministry said in a statement. 

"The ambassador was presented with a statement of resolute protest in connection with the groundless expulsion from Finland of two employees of the Russian Embassy in Helsinki as part of the EU anti-Russian sanctions campaign, as well as Finland's confrontational course towards Russia, including the supply of weapons to the Kyiv regime and covering up the crimes of Ukrainian nationalists against the civilian population of Donbass and Ukraine," according to a statement from the ministry. 

"The Ambassador was informed that, as a reaction to these actions of the Finnish authorities, the Russian side made a decision on the unacceptability of the further stay in the Russian Federation of two employees of the staff of the Embassy of Finland in Moscow," the ministry said. 
Finnish President "sure" dispute with Turkey over NATO membership will be resolved
Finnish President Sauli Niinisto has said he is "sure" a dispute with Turkey over Finland's and Sweden's potential NATO membership will be resolved.

"In recent days, Turkey's statements have changed and hardened very quickly. I am sure, however, that we will solve the situation through constructive discussions," Niinisto said in an address to the Swedish parliament in Stockholm Tuesday.

NATO member Turkey has presented itself as a mediator between Russia and Ukraine.

Turkey's President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said on Monday that he would not approve Sweden and Finland's NATO membership over sanctions on Turkey and further accused both countries of housing Kurdish "terrorist organizations." 

Asked by a Swedish parliamentarian about his views on the matter, Niinisto called the recent dispute "surprising." He recounted that, in a call with Erdogan a month ago, the Turkish President said he had "favorable" views on Finnish NATO membership.

"Now (the problems) have crept up, and that means that we must continue our discussions. I'm optimistic," Niinisto said.
Lavrov says Finland and Sweden joining NATO "makes no difference"
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said that NATO has "taken into account the territories of Finland and Sweden in its military plans for eastward expansion" for years, and therefore the two countries' accession to the alliance "makes no difference."

"Finland, Sweden and other neutral countries have for years participated in NATO’s military exercises. NATO has taken their territories into account in planning its eastward movement," Lavrov said on Tuesday, state news agency TASS reported. 

"In this context it apparently makes no difference any more (in connection with their admission to NATO)," Lavrov added.

Speaking at an educational conference organized by the Russian Znanie (Knowledge) society in Moscow, Lavrov said Russia doesn't see why Finland and Sweden should be worried about their security.

"For this reason we see their decision, which Washington and NATO surely lobbied for, as a geopolitical move in the context of Russia’s containment and the implementation of NATO’s plans to spread its activities to the Arctic region," he said.

"Incidentally, the Finnish President and the Finnish ambassadors everywhere have been saying that they see no threats from Russia. Admission to NATO stems from the changes in the security situation in Europe. But there is no logic here," he added.

Russia will observe how NATO uses the territories of Finland and Sweden and "make its conclusions," Lavrov said.

Finland's government said on Sunday that it intends to join NATO, and on Tuesday Sweden's foreign minister signed an application declaring the country wants to join the military alliance.

EU's chief diplomat Josep Borrell reiterated on Tuesday that the European Council "strongly supports" the application of both countries to join NATO. 
Any negotiations with Russia are "suspended" because of Moscow's mindset, Ukrainian official says
Negotiations with Russia on resolving the conflict have been suspended, an adviser to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has said.

It was because "Russia is still in its stereotypical mindset," he said on Ukrainian television Tuesday, adding that Russia doesn't realize that the war "is no longer going on according to the rules, their plans, and schedule."

Since the two delegations met in Istanbul, "there's no significant changes, no progress," he said. "The resistance of Ukraine, the professional resistance just grows, that’s why there’s no way Russia achieves its goals."

Podolyak also rejected any territorial concessions.

"The war will not end if we give some of our territories there. This is not acceptable for Ukraine, and it will not be accepted by Ukrainian society. Minsk-2 could be signed by another president. President Zelensky will not sign it. Because any Minsk-2 is a postponement of the war, even more destructive, for example, in a year or two," he said.

Minsk-2 would have accorded significant autonomy to the territory in the east that has been under the control of Russian-backed separatists since 2014.

Meanwhile, Russian state news agency reported Tuesday that Deputy Foreign Minister Andrei Rudenko confirmed negotiations are not happening, but he reportedly said it's because Kyiv withdrew from the process.

Kyiv did not provide a response to the draft treaty proposed by Russia, Rudenko added.

The decision of the foreign ministers of the EU member states to allocate another 500 million euros ($527 million) to Ukraine from the European Peace Fund for weapon purchases is prolonging the conflict, according to Rudenko.

Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin Putin 
Russia Russia Russia Russia Russia Russia Russia Russia Russia Russia Russia Russia Russia Russia Russia Russia Russia Russia Russia Russia Russia Russia Russia Russia Russia Russia Russia Russia Russia Russia 
war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war 
killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing 
death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death 