Ukraine's security service hunts the spies selling information to Russia
On a dusty street in the eastern Ukrainian town of Sloviansk, a man in a long-sleeved black shirt and cargo pants smokes a cigarette. He's being watched.

"He's ours," a man says into a radio from his car down the road. "Here he goes."
From the other direction, a van swerves, and two men in combat fatigues and face coverings jump out. The man in black drops to the ground, as if by instinct. The officers -- from Ukraine's security service, or SBU -- pat him down and retrieve their prized evidence: His mobile phone.
In eastern Ukraine, the thuds of duelling Russian and Ukrainian artillery are a near-constant presence. Much of the Russian shelling is indiscriminate, but some is aimed at high-value targets like military encampments, arms depots, or the SBU's own headquarters in Kramatorsk, which was partially destroyed in the opening weeks of the war.
A suspect is led away by a Ukrainian security service agent after being arrested on suspicion of providing information to Russia. Editor's Note: CNN has blurred this photo to protect the identity of the suspect.
The SBU says Russian forces rely heavily on collaborators like the alleged spy CNN saw being arrested in Sloviansk this weekend to pinpoint their targets and evaluate the success of their hits.
When confronted by an SBU investigator on the scene, the suspect quickly admits to communicating with the enemy.
"What did he ask you for?" asks the investigator.
"Coordinates, movements and so on," the suspect says, head downcast. "The locations of the hits. That sort of thing. The situation in general, and so on."
"Did you understand why he needed the coordinates?"
"Yes, I understand. I realize."
Agents from Ukraine's security service search the phone of a suspect believed to have sent information to Russian forces.
The SBU here say they're carrying out stings like this once or twice a day. This man has been under investigation for just four days.
Some of the suspects are classic infiltrators: Russian citizens, brought to the Donbas region at the beginning of the war, who live among the population. Others are political sympathizers. But the man leading today's sting, who we're calling Serhiy, says most people spy for money.
"There are fewer and fewer ideological traitors," he says. "Even those who supported the aggression of the Russian federation in 2014 in the Donbas, during the creation of the so-called DPR and LPR [Donetsk and Luhansk People's Republics] -- when they saw what happened with Mariupol, Kharkiv, Kyiv, Bucha and dozens and hundreds of other localities, they started to change their world view about Russia."
The suspect this weekend tells the investigator that he was offered just 500 hryvnia, or around 17 dollars, in exchange for targeting information. He says he was recruited through the messaging app Telegram by someone identifying himself as "Nikolai."
The headquarters of the Security Service of Ukraine (SBU) in Kramatorsk, which was hit but a Russian strike in March.
The investigator reads out their exchanges as SBU agents stand with pistols unholstered.
"You did a good job yesterday," wrote Nikolai. "The same information is needed today. Photos, videos, geo-data of the military on the CNIL [a military encampment]. How long does it take to get the information?"
"Got it, got it," the suspect replied. "I'll text you back. One and a half to two hours."
"Ok, waiting," Nikolai replied. "Be careful. Pay attention to the cameras so they don't see you. Take photos and videos secretly."
The investigator explains to the suspect that they're seizing his phone.
"Who do I call to inform about your detention?" the investigator asks.
"My mother," the suspect says.
"Do you remember the number?"
"There's a number in the phone."
With that, the man is led to the SBU's unmarked car, and driven away. Serhiy says he will be transferred west, to Dnipro, where he will face trial. If it is proven that his spying led to death or "severe consequences," a conviction could send him to prison for the rest of his life, Serhiy says.
"These missiles come at the coordinates which are transmitted by such criminals," he tells us back at headquarters. "People die because of these missiles. Our soldiers are killed, and civilians are killed."
He says he tries to keep his anger at bay, but it's hard not to take the betrayals personally.
"Every time I arrest someone like him, I know one thing: I'm from here myself. My loved ones, all my relatives, are from Lyman" -- a nearby town that has been under heavy Russian bombardment for weeks -- he says.
"At the moment, they have no place to live, they have nothing. They have nowhere to come back to. I remember it every time. I remember the Kramatorsk railway station every time," he says, referring to a Russian airstrike in April that killed at least 50 people.
"We were picking people up, piece by piece."
Russia's tanks in Ukraine have a 'jack-in-the-box' design flaw. And the West has known about it since the Gulf war
Russian tanks with their tops blown off are just the latest sign that Russia's invasion of Ukraine isn't going to plan.

Hundreds of Russian tanks are thought to have been destroyed since Moscow launched its offensive, with British Defense Secretary Ben Wallace on Monday estimating it had lost as many as 580.
But Moscow's problems go beyond the sheer number of tanks it has lost. Experts say battlefield images show Russian tanks are suffering from a defect that Western militaries have known about for decades and refer to as the "jack-in-the-box effect." Moscow, they say, should have seen the problem coming.

The problem relates to how the tanks' ammunition is stored. Unlike modern Western tanks, Russian ones carry multiple shells within their turrets. This makes them highly vulnerable as even an indirect hit can start a chain reaction that explodes their entire ammunition store of up to 40 shells.
The resulting shockwave can be enough to blast the tank's turret as high as a two-story building, as can be seen in a recent video on social media.
"What we are witnessing with Russian tanks is a design flaw," said Sam Bendett, adviser with the Russia Studies Program at CNA and an adjunct senior fellow with the Center for a New American Security.
"Any successful hit ... quickly ignites the ammo causing a massive explosion, and the turret is literally blown off."
The flaw means the tank's crew -- usually two men in the turret and a third driving -- are sitting ducks, said Nicholas Drummond, a defense industry analyst specializing in land warfare and a former British Army officer.
"If you don't get out within the first second, you're toast."
Drummond said exploding munitions are causing problems for almost all of the armored vehicles Russia is using in Ukraine. He gave the example of the BMD-4 infantry fighting vehicle, typically manned by up to three crew and able to carry another five soldiers. He said the BMD-4 was a "mobile coffin" that was "just obliterated" when hit by a rocket.
But the design flaw with its tanks should be particularly galling for Moscow as the problems have been so widely telegraphed.
They came to the attention of Western militaries during the Gulf wars against Iraq in 1991 and 2003, when large numbers of the Iraqi army's Russian-made T-72 tanks suffered the same fate -- turrets being blown from their bodies in anti-tank missile strikes.
Drummond said Russia hadn't learned the lessons from Iraq and that consequently many of its tanks in Ukraine featured similar design flaws with their autoloading missile systems.
When the T-90 series -- the successor to the T-72 -- came into service in 1992 its armor was upgraded but its ammunition loading system remained similar to its predecessor's, leaving it just as vulnerable, Drummond said. The T-80, another Russian tank seeing action in the Ukraine invasion, has a similar ammunition loading system.

war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war war 
killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing 
death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death 
Ukraine Ukraine Ukraine Ukraine Ukraine Ukraine Ukraine Ukraine Ukraine Ukraine Ukraine Ukraine Ukraine Ukraine Ukraine Ukraine Ukraine Ukraine Ukraine Ukraine Ukraine Ukraine Ukraine Ukraine Ukraine Ukraine Ukraine Ukraine Ukraine Ukraine Ukraine Ukraine Ukraine Ukraine Ukraine Ukraine 